> notice!
the summary file will be generated by every ###, #### tags. (#, ## not included)

# notation rules
- #: class
- ##: subject
- ###: grouping concepts
- unorderd list: detailed concepts

# [그림으로 이해하는 개발자 기본 개념 총정리] 내용 정리
## Web Programing
### SQL: Structured Query Language
- DDL: Data Definition Language
- DML: Data Manipulation Language

### Design Pattern: structured methods for general purpose.
- route-controller: a design pattern among architecture pattern.
- architecture pattern: design method distributing the role of the code in a proper way.

### Database: storage containing resources for a service.

### RDB: Relational Database. 
- RDB is consisted of cluster of data, so called table.

### bcrypt: blowfish crypt. encrypt hash function
- salt: random noise appended to the encrypted data.

### Characteristics of HTTP: stateless and connectionless.
- Stateless: without state. the term means that the server never saves the states of any HTTP communications
- Connectionless: without connection. Connection is cut directly when the response is delivered(for efficiency). (rather resembled letter, not phone call) 

### authentication and authorization
- authentication: protocol of clearifing the identity of client
- authorization: protocol of giving proper authority to a client

### session: duration for certain task. lasts during the communication between two computer.
- lists: methods of saving session
  - in memory: save in memory
  - express: save the session in json format on express framework.
  - database: save the session in DB in certain column values.

### Difference of framework and library
- framework: aims for unified structure of app.
- library: focus on expert features

### API: applicatin programming interface. Interface of app.

### REST: Representational State Transfer
- REST names resources for communication via api
- RESTful: the condition of following REST rule.

### paging: way of resource dilivery.

### HTTPS: secured hypertext transition protocol
